Contributing doc (#50)
jessegrabowski/cge_modeling: docs/source/contributing/contributing.rst

Contributing
=============

`cge_modeling` is an open source, collective effort. There are many ways in which you can help make it better. And all of them are welcome!

Contribute as an individual
------------
`cge_modeling` is a joint effort of many people, each contributing to the areas they like and have some expertise in, coordinating to try and cover all tasks.

Coding and documentation are the most common types of contributions, but there are many more things that you can do to help the `cge_modeling` effort which are just as important.

> Contact us to `jessegrabowski@gmail.com ` or `jcamsalda@gmail.com` if you want to contribute to the project but are not sure where you can contribute or how to start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contact us at `jessegrabowski@gmail.com ` or `jcamsalda@gmail.com` if you want to contribute to the project but are not sure where you can contribute or how to start.
```

> Below there are some examples of non code nor doc contributions that could serve as an inspiration. If you have other ideas let us know on Discourse to see if we can make it happen too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below there are some examples of non code nor doc contributions that could serve as an inspiration.
```

We don't have a discourse u_u

> Report a bug or make a suggestion for improvement by opening an issue in Github. You can find the issues' board [here](https://github.com/users/jessegrabowski/projects/2/views/1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report a bug or make a suggestion for improvement by opening an issue in Github. You can find the issues' board [here](https://github.com/jessegrabowski/cge_modeling/issues)
```
link the issues tab not the project board

Teach about `cge_modeling` and advertise best practices by writing blogs or giving talks

Contribute via Pull Requests on GitHub
------------
We have a Pull request step-by-step and a Pull request checklist page to help in all the steps of the contributing process, from before your first ever contribution to regular contributions as a core contributor.

Etiquette for code contributions

> ~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: I think these underlines *have* to go the full length of the text in rst

Author: Adjusted

When you start working working on an issue, open a Draft pull request as soon as you make your first commit (see Pull request step-by-step).

Before opening a PR with a new feature, please make a proposal by opening an issue or Discussion with the maintainers.

> Any issue without an open pull request is available for work. You can find the issues' board [here](https://github.com/users/jessegrabowski/projects/2/views/1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any issue without an open pull request is available for work. You can find the issues' board [here](https://github.com/jessegrabowski/cge_modeling/issues)
```

If a pull request has no recent activity it may be closed, or taken over by someone else.

The specific timeframe for “recent” is hard to define as it depends on the contributor the specific code change, and other contextual factors.

The core devs will make their best judgement when opting to close PRs or reassign them to others.

If unsure if an issue ticket is available feel free to ask in the issue ticket. Note however, that per the previous point an open pull request is way to claim an issue ticket. Please do not make unrealistic pledges in the issue tickets.

It’s okay if you are delayed or need to take a break, but please leave a comment in the pull request if you cannot get it to a state where it can be merged. Depending on the change (urgent bugfix vs. new feature) the core devs can determine if the PR needs to be reassigned to get the work done.

Code related contributions
~~~~~~~~~
Join the discussion or submit a solution for an open issue.

Documentation related contributions
~~~~~~~~~

> See all open issues in documentation [here](https://github.com/users/jessegrabowski/projects/2/views/1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See all open issues in documentation [here](https://github.com/jessegrabowski/cge_modeling/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aopen%20label%3Adocumentation)
```

Contribute as an institution
~~~~~~~~~
Institutions can contribute in the following ways:

By becoming Institutional Partners

> By becoming Sponsors

Reviewer: I wish!

Author: Well, honestly, it is not impossible. This might attract institutional interest!

`cge_modeling` is an open source, collective effort. There are many ways in which you can help make it better. And all of them are welcome!

Contribute as an individual

> ------------------------------------

Reviewer: Sorry, I was not clear. I **think** that in rst format the underline  must match the length of the text you are underlining. Like this:

```
Contribute as an individual
------------------------------
````

Author: Actually, it does not have to be the same length. It just has to be at least as long as.

Check it [here](https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/basics.html)
<img width="413" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/db268992-e630-420f-85c5-70654be35310" />
